And now it's time for meditation. Let
's write down the topic
[music].
This topic helps us examine our
minds once again so that our minds
don't waver during the practice. Our faith
grows, and we must affirm
this. Then tomorrow when we
sit and listen to the master's lecture, we can
concentrate. So this
helps us
purify
our thoughts very well. The second topic
[music] is that
sometimes when we practice, we don't recognize or
constantly examine
our weaknesses, so we won't be able to
strive. The third topic
[music] is that
when we see our
weaknesses, we must come up with a
method to overcome them. Do you understand this? We are
lazy to visit and listen to the Dharma. We must come up with a method of
practice in our thinking, and then
we will have to practice accordingly.
Each person must have their own effort. If
we don't think, we won't
see the benefits of it. We must
penetrate Right View. If we don't see the
benefits of it...  Regarding the growth of our thinking, we
ourselves will be weak
in meditation practice. Therefore,
we must examine our weaknesses. If our Right View is
not yet clear,
we must diligently listen to the Dharma to clarify it. If we are weak in thinking, we must combine listening with practice. After listening to the
Dharma, we must think and practice simultaneously.
It must be inseparable; we cannot think separately. Similarly, with
music,
we think and then
practice. That is, the
discernment of the Dharma leads to the
diligence of the Dharma. If we
only think without practicing,
that thinking is incorrect. Gradually, it
will become wrong. We must think and
practice; only then can we truly
experience Right View.
For example, we say that craving is suffering,
right? That is the Right
View that craving is suffering. So we must
think about what we are craving,
right? Then we see that we are craving, and we see that
craving is suffering. Then
tomorrow we must let go of that craving. Is that
true diligence?  And we must do
that. Love is suffering. Tomorrow we must see
what we are loving and let go of
it, even if it's just a pair of sandals. Do
you understand? So, if we practice, we
must practice, not just
theory. The fifth topic to start
tomorrow well
[music]: If
we shift our minds and divide gratitude, we
will immediately fall into ego. Therefore, the mind should be focused on the
constant contemplation of gratitude.
Even a small good deed that I have comes from my
master; that is true sincerity, achieved through my own
contemplation. If it's not there, then nothing can be
done. It must be true sincerity, not just words, not just written texts, but
obedience. If
the mind is focused on gratitude and contemplation, it's just thinking things up to do, then
what's the point of showing gratitude to the master? If everyone
thinks things up and does things according to their own will, then showing gratitude is just showing off.
People must
truly obey, and then they will benefit; only then will that
saying be truly
sincere, everyone. So, anything that is
true is acceptable.  For the benefit of the masses, let's
relax our legs, arms, and
shoulders. Remember to take three deep breaths.
And when it's time to end the meditation, the
masses are too
hasty. When ending the meditation, we
must inhale and exhale strongly before moving our
shoulders and hands. Before even hearing the bell, we're
already rubbing our hands together. Why so
fast? It's like we're just waiting for
the time to
run out! [Music] Sitting solemnly [Music] Pure cultivation [Music] Spirit of tranquil illumination. Who wants to be born until now? [Music] Destruction [Music] What need is there to destroy?
[Music] Reflect. See all dharmas as a calculation [Music]
No need to
use
[Music] to eliminate them all.
Mind and
nature are
not
imagined or
presumptuous. Peaceful and unmoving, like the same. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Namo
Buddha  The Buddha Shakyamuni